All righty, so let's go ahead and talk
about the development process
for the Spring Boot back end.
And before I get there, I just want to do a little checkpoint
here on our Java Development Environment.
So one thing is that we're going to assume
that you're already an experienced Spring Boot developer.
If you don't have any Spring Boot experience,
I'll recommend you go find an online tutorial
for Spring Boot.
There's a lot of free ones online.
I also have a beginner's course that covers
Spring Hibernate and Spring Boot.
You can take a look at that if you need to get
up to speed.
And then also you should have the following items
already installed on your computers.
So you should already have the Java Development Kit
installed, the Java IDE.
We'll use IntelliJ in the videos,
but any Java IDE will work.
And I'll talk more about that later.
You need to have Maven already installed
and also the MySQL Database
and also the MySQL Workbench, the client admin tool.
All righty, so about IntelliJ.
IntelliJ is this super amazing IDE for Java development,
and I highly recommend that you take a look at it
and use it.
So in this course, we're going to use the free version
of IntelliJ.
It's known as the IntelliJ Community Edition.
And you can download it from the website
here on the slide.
And once you're at that given website,
you simply select Community Edition,
download it, and get it up and running.
And the Community Edition, you can use it for building
the applications that we'll use here in this course.
They also have the Ultimate Edition,
so it's a paid version.
It has a lot of additional enterprise features for you.
If you're working for a company, your company could
probably purchase that Ultimate Edition for you.
But anyways, there's a free trial of the Ultimate Edition
that is available,
and you can download it also from the link
that I gave here on this slide.
So either way,
but in this course, the development that we're going to use,
the Community Edition will meet our given needs.
And if you want to see a comparison between the
different editions, the Community and Ultimate,
at the JetBrains website, they do a really good job
of showing you the comparison of features.
All righty, so additional Java IDEs,
and you're probably wondering,
well what about Eclipse?
What about VS Code?
What about NetBeans?
And the answer's, no problem.
You're free to use other Java IDEs.
All you need is a Java IDE that supports Maven,
that's it.
You can easily follow along in this course
with any Java IDE.
And we'll also provide support for IntelliJ, Eclipse,
VS Code, and NetBeans.
So feel free to use any IDE
that you're most comfortable with.
Don't worry, we got you covered.
All righty, so our Spring Boot back end,
so we're going to leverage Spring Data REST
for our REST API.
And it'll actually minimize the coding
for the Spring Boot back end.
So, again, we're building this full stack application,
Angular on the front, Spring Boot on the back.
We somehow need to create REST APIs,
and we'll use Spring Data REST to help us out with that.
Since you already have some Spring Boot experience,
just a quick refresher here.
So Spring Data REST will basically scan our project
for a JpaRepository,
and it'll expose REST APIs for each entity type
for our JpaRepository.
So here's one example here.
We have this ProductRepository extends JpaRepository.
We give the entity type comma the primary key type.
So the entity type here is Product.
The primary key type is Long.
And based on this information,
it'll expose REST endpoints.
So a bit more here on the REST endpoints.
So by default, Spring Data REST will create endpoints
based on the entity type.
It'll make use of the simple, pluralized form.
So it'll basically take the first character
of the entity type and make it lowercase
and then just add an S to the entity.
So in our example of our product repository
extends JpaRepository Product comma Long.
That'll basically expose an endpoint called
slash products.
So we'll take product, simply add an S to it.
So the really nice thing here is that Spring Data REST
will expose these endpoints for free.
So we'll basically have a slash products,
and we'll have support for all the different
HTTP methods for POST, GET, PUT, DELETEs.
So this will give us all of our CRUD support
for our given entities,
for creating, reading, updating, and deleting.
So very minimal code here for exposing your REST API
using Spring Data REST and also with Spring Boot.
All righty, so let's go to look at our database schema.
This is for release 1.0.
So we'll have two tables to start out with.
We'll have a product table and also
a product category table.
So a quick run on the product table.
Most of these fields are fairly self-explanatory.
At the top, we'll have the product ID
and then we'll have the sku.
We'll have the product name and description.
Also a unit price, an image URL,
and then we'll have the active field,
which is Boolean.
So this will say if the actual product is active
in our catalog or not,
or if we should show it or not in the display.
Then we have the number of units in stock,
the date this given product was created in our database,
last updated date, and also the actual category ID
that this product is associated with.
And then over on the product category side,
we have the actual product ID and the actual
name of the category.
And then when you look at this schema, you're like
wow, this is really small for an e-commerce project.
Well, remember this is for version 1.0.
At this point, we're simply displaying a list
of products.
Our database schema will grow over time as we add
more features and functionality to the database.
But this is enough to get us started with release 1.0.
And then also in this database schema, we're going to
make use of some advanced JPA mappings,
so we'll make use of many to one,
so we'll have many products that belong to one category.
And we'll also make use of one to many,
so one category has many products.
And these are advanced JPA mappings,
and we'll actually make use of them
in our full stack project.
All righty, so our project will have two database scripts,
01-create-user and 02-create-products.sql.
All right, so a bit more about the 01-create-user.sql.
This will basically create a MySQL user
for our application.
The user name will be ecommerceapp,
and the password will be ecommerceapp.
All righty and some information about the
02-create-products.sql.
So this will create new database tables
for product and product category.
And this will also load the tables with sample data.
All righty, so looking at our Spring Boot back end,
so our main thing to do, our main goal here
in this section is to actually build the Spring Boot
back end with the REST APIs
and also provide access to the database using CRUD.
So here's our development process.
So the first thing that we'll do is we'll
set up the database tables.
And then we'll create the Spring Boot starter project.
And with our starter project, we'll add in some
dependencies for our Spring Boot starter data JPA,
data REST, the mySQL connector Java,
and also Lombok.
And then we'll develop the entities for product
and product category.
And then we'll create the REST APIs with Spring Data
JPA Repositories and also Spring Data REST.
All right, now you may have noticed a reference
to Lombok.
And you're probably wondering to yourself,
what exactly is Lombok?
Well, Lombok is a modern Java project,
and Lombok will automatically generate
the getter and setter methods for you
behind the scenes.
So there's no need for the developer to manually define
getter and setter methods.
Lombok will do the work for you.
Lombok has easy to use annotations
to eliminate boilerplate code.
And you can get more details on Lombok
at the website here, projectlombok.org.
So let's take a quick look at Lombok.
So it's really easy to get started with.
So before Lombok, we would create a Java class,
and we would manually define all of our getter
and setter methods.
Now after using Lombok, we can create a Java class,
we make use of this special annotation,
this Lombok annotation called @Data.
This annotation will actually generate the
getter and setter methods for us.
All right, so that's it.
There's absolutely no need for us to manually
write the getter and setters.
Lombok will do all of this work for us behind the scenes.
So notice here it makes your code much smaller,
and it'll also minimize the amount of boilerplate
code that you the developer have to write.
Lombok will do all of that work for you
behind the scenes.
So we'll use Lombok in these videos just to minimize
the boilerplate coding,
but there's no hard requirement for you to use Lombok.
You can create your normal Java classes
and define your normal getter and setter methods.
It's totally up to you.
But here, we'll make use of Lombok
just to minimize the boilerplate coding
and also to make the videos go a bit faster.
All righty, so I'm excited.
Let's go ahead and move into the IDE,
and let's get started.